welcome everyone to Haggerty classic car
TV for this week's episode we pay
tribute to the great automotive designer
ferdinand porsche who passed away
recently at the age of 76 now apart from
being the grandson of the famous founder
of the company fa porsche designed one
of the most recognizable sports cars in
the world the Porsche 911 2013 happens
to be the 50th anniversary of the
Porsche 911 and Rob's ass and I are
standing here at the Petersen Automotive
Museum in Los Angeles next to what is
one of their earliest 911s and and what
a lot of people may not know is that the
911 originally started out as a the 901
interestingly the French company Pujo
claimed to have a trademark on model
designations that were a digit with a
zero in the middle three-digit
designation as zero in the middle so
portrait changed the car to 911 so what
what distinguishes the earliest of the
911 or the nate'll ones you know a layer
style 911 well a couple of interesting
things here you look down the side of
the car you can see that this is a
narrow car the 356 which preceded it
didn't have really any fender flares at
all this car has just really very very
subtle fender flares short wheelbase
horse just stretched the wheelbase of
this car in 1969 but this is the
original wheelbase 911 you'll notice a
lot of bright trim on the outside of the
car that went away on the later cars
you've got a very very good steering
wheel that's very sought-after by
Porsche collectors up to 18 1966 they
also had wood on the dash is this car
does and this car has these nice
houndstooth fabric seat inserts which
horse would people like an awful lot
again you know you look at the wheels
and tires in this
not the familiar five-spoke Fuchs
alloyed wheels you saw later cars just
chrome steel wheels and they're very
narrow all right so now if I was
interested in purchasing one of the
earliest 911s what should I look out for
Portugal these beautiful wonderful
high-quality sports cars but like
anybody else in the air they really
didn't know how to effectively
rustproofing so up until really about
1976 Porsches just rusted okay so how
about the mechanical side what should
you look out for mechanical side you
know these curves are less robust this
is a 2 liter engine and and later these
cars you know became you know 3 liter
and 3.2 liters they were altogether more
robust engines but for the most part
mechanical parts not hard to come by
really for handy vintage 911 it's the
body cancer issue that really is the big
thing in these cars